def: Fin as a record type (#452)
the1lab/1lab: src/Data/Fin/Base.lagda.md

# Finite sets {defines=standard-finite-set}

The type $\operatorname{Fin}(n)$ is the type with exactly $n$ elements.
We define it as a record type, packaging a natural number $k$ with a
proof that $k \lt n$.

```agda
record Fin (n : Nat) : Type where
  constructor fin
  field
    lower       : Nat
    ⦃ bounded ⦄ : Irr (lower Nat.< n)
```

While the type $k \lt n$ is a [[homotopy proposition|proposition]], we
would like to enforce that constructions on $\operatorname{Fin}(n)$
*definitionally* do not depend on the given proof. Therefore, we have
wrapped it in `Irr`{.Agda}.

In dependent type theory, it's common to instead define the finite sets

> as a family indexed over `Nat`{.Agda}. However, we prefer the definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as an inductive family indexed over `Nat`{.Agda}. However, we prefer the definition
```

above because it lets us `cast`{.Agda} elements of
$\operatorname{Fin}(n)$ along a path $n = m$ in a way that
definitionally preserves the underlying number:

```agda
cast : ∀ {m n} → m ≡ n → Fin m → Fin n
cast p (fin n ⦃ i ⦄) = record
  { lower   = n
  ; bounded = subst (n Nat.<_) p <$> i
  }

> ```

Reviewer: We don't need `cast` any more since `subst Fin` now behaves that way, right? I think it would be clearer to just observe that `subst Fin` is equal to that function by `refl`.
